Updates the documentation: Adds tutorials on creating post types, custom fields, taxonomies, and options pages, and improves guidance on the relationship between post types, taxonomies, and custom fields. (#187)
WordPress/secure-custom-fields: docs/tutorials/first-custom-field.md

# Creating Your First Custom Field

A beginner-friendly guide to adding custom fields using Secure Custom Fields (SCF).

**What is a custom field?**

Custom fields let you add structured data to your content. With SCF, you can attach fields like text inputs, selects, image uploads, and more to your posts, pages, or custom post types.

## Prerequisites

-   SCF installed and activated
-   A post type (default or custom) where you'll attach your fields
-   Administrator access to WordPress

You can learn more about WordPress basics here:

-   [Theme Basics](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/basics/)
-   [Plugin Basics](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-basics/)

> 

Reviewer: Do we need to provide guides about themes and plugins creations here?

## 1. Access the Admin Panel

> -   Go to **Secure Custom Fields → Field Groups** in your WordPress admin menu.

Reviewer: On the sidebar, is called SCF.
```suggestion
-   Go to **SCF → Field Groups** in your WordPress admin menu.
```

# Creating Your First Custom Field

A beginner-friendly guide to adding custom fields using Secure Custom Fields (SCF).

**What is a custom field?**

Custom fields let you add structured data to your content. With SCF, you can attach fields like text inputs, selects, image uploads, and more to your posts, pages, or custom post types.

## Prerequisites

-   SCF installed and activated
-   A post type (default or custom) where you'll attach your fields
-   Administrator access to WordPress

You can learn more about WordPress basics here:

-   [Theme Basics](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/basics/)
-   [Plugin Basics](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/plugin-basics/)

## 1. Access the Admin Panel

-   Go to **Secure Custom Fields → Field Groups** in your WordPress admin menu.
-   Click **"Add New"** to create a new group of fields.

## 2. Basic Configuration

> #### Field Group Title

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason to avoid H3 and jump straight to H4?

Author: No, change that

Give your field group a descriptive name, like `Movie Details` or `Product Specs`.

#### Location Rules

Choose where this group should appear. For example:

-   Post type is equal to `Movie`
-   Page template is `Product Page`

> This ensures your fields appear only where you need them.

Reviewer 2: We could add a note saying that this fine-grained control allows the fields to be reused in different places.

#### Active

> Make sure the field group is set to **Active** so it appears in the editor.

Reviewer 2: Thinking out loud: if we are mentioning this, maybe we should also make sure `Show in REST` is enabled? It is not strictly necessary to work with metaboxes, but some of the new features @cbravobernal is working on require `Show in REST` to be enabled.

Reviewer: Yep. We should put show in rest as true by default in a near future.

## 3. Adding Fields

Click **"Add Field"** to create your first field. For each field, configure:

-   **Label**: The visible name of the field (e.g., `Director`)
-   **Field Name**: A unique identifier used in code (e.g., `director`)
-   **Field Type**: Choose from text, textarea, number, image, checkbox, select, and more
-   **Instructions**: Optional helper text to guide users

> -   **Required**: Whether this field must be filled in

Reviewer 2: Required is on a different tab. The list should be ordered according to the UI or by required vs optional.

-   **Default Value** and **Placeholder**: Optional presets

Repeat this process for as many fields as needed.

## 4. Testing

-   Go to a post of the type you've targeted with the field group.
-   You should now see your custom fields below the content editor.
-   Fill in test data and save the post.
-   Confirm the fields save and appear as expected.

## Next Steps

> -   Display the custom field values on the frontend using SCF template functions

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure these next steps are easy to understand, considering a user is reading a basic tutorial and these next steps are much more complex and undocumented. I'm curious to see what others think.

-   Use conditional logic or field groups to organize complex forms
-   Combine with taxonomies or other field groups for richer structures

> 

Reviewer 2: There is an inconsistency between ending the sentences with a period or not. If I'm not mistaken, full sentences need to end with a period and phrases don't.
